---
title: "Not your ordinary introduction, but an open letter to Angela Merkel"
layout: post
---

Disclaimer: This letter is written in a dire attempt to be humorous. Kindly do not attempt to reach out to me about how unrealistic you find my desires to be. It is okay to dream.

Dear Ms. Merkel,

My name is Khyathi, a teenager who was unfortunately born in India. Before you judge me for my lack of patriotism, allow me to explain, contextually, why I dislike India as a nation, whilst attempting to convey how much I have admired Germany since my childhood. 

Growing up, my mother, who is a second world war aficionado, would often narrate me tales about the second world war. Like many others, I was more than perturbed by Anne Frank’s diary, wherein she described her deepest feelings as she hid in a Secret Annex for over two years in Amsterdam. The sight of the weary eyes of my mother as she spent hours late at night watching holocaust movies is still etched into my mind, and is a prime memory of my childhood. I am proud to say that I did inherit this intense love for Germany as years went on, I continued to educate myself about Germany’s history, by reading books such as “The Book Thief” and “Number the Stars”. My mother and I frequently engaged in intellectual discussions about the life of Germans during, post, and prior to the second world war. What amazed us the most was how Germans went on to truly redeem themselves despite their dark past. While I am not usually a person who pays much attention to a nation’s History, I truly believe that the story of Germany interests many. 



As Germany became the definition of everything I ever loved, learning more about India as a young citizen of this nation only led to a deep feeling of dismay that never left. As a teenager, every nook and cranny seems to be yelling at me about how India is not the right place for someone my age to live in. The sorry state of the education system with no advanced curriculum has led to me resorting to homeschooling, and my years in school were no party either. Even at a time of distress like the Coronavirus outbreak, the focus is on religion - and this just leads to people my age losing any faith in the almighty, if they had any in the first place. If we can’t accept people of different castes, communities, creeds, and religions, how is it that we can expect such a nation to be considerate to the LGBTQIA+ community as well? The lack of acceptance to anything out of the ordinary does nothing but deepen my dislike for India as a nation.

It wouldn’t be right if I did not mention the fact that I absolutely love mathematics, which intimidated me in my childhood, but ended up becoming the reason for my existence. The opportunities for research in India are rather scarce, just as meagre as the amount of people who are educated about it. After all, Germany was home to Carl Friedrich Gauss, a man who was not just a legendary mathematician, but in recent days, I have also discovered that he was a wise man who was accepting beyond his years - as he thought highly of Sophie-Germain, a female mathematician who was forced to hide her identity by society. Gauss’s quotes about the subject are still relevant to this date. In the modern time, Peter Scholze is another great persona, one who sets a role model for several of us in the years to come as he won a Gold Medal in the International Mathematical Olympiad thrice, and then proceeded to win a Fields Medal in 2018. 

I sincerely hope that some day, I will have the honour of immigrating to Germany, the nation of my choice, with rich history, happy people, and a beautiful language.

Regards,

Khyathi.




